So far, we have learned how to
extract feature positions in
the image and how to extract
descriptors from
the local neighborhood
of these features.
This video, will teach you about
the last step of
using features for
computer vision applications in
autonomous driving
feature matching.
Specifically, we
will cover how to
match features based
on distance functions,
we will then describe
brute force matching
as simple but powerful
feature matching algorithm.
But first, let's remind
ourselves of how we intend to
use features for a variety
of perception tasks.
First, we identify
image features,
distinctive points in our images.
Second, we associate a descriptor
for each feature from
its neighborhood.
Finally, we use descriptors to
match features across
two or more images.
Afterwards, we can use
the matched features
for a variety of
applications including
state estimation,
visual odometry, and
object detection.
It is essential to identify
matches correctly however,
as these applications
are susceptible to
catastrophic failures
if incorrect matches
are provided too frequently.
As a result, feature
matching plays
a critical role in
robust perception methods
for self-driving cars.
Here's an example of a
feature matching problem.
Given a feature and it's
descriptor in image one,
we want to try to find
the best match for the
feature in image two.
So how can we solve this problem?
The simplest solution to
the matching problem is referred
to as brute force
feature matching,
and is described
as the following.
First, define a distance
function d that
compares the descriptors
of two features fi and fj,
and defines the
distance between them.
The more similar the two
descriptors are to each other,
the smaller the
distance between them.
Second, for every feature
fi in image one,
we apply the distance
function d to compute
the distance with
every feature fj in image two.
Finally, we will return
the feature which we'll
call fc from image
two with the minimum distance to
the feature fi in image
one as our match.
This feature is known as
the nearest neighbor,
and it is the closest feature to
the original one in
the descriptor space.
The most common distance function
used to compare descriptors
is the sum of
squared distances or SSD.
Which penalizes variations
between two descriptors
quadratically making it sensitive
to large variations
in the descriptor,
but insensitive to smaller ones.
Other distance functions
such as the sum of
absolute differences or
the Hamming distance
are also viable alternatives.
The sum of absolute difference
penalizes all variations
equally while
the Hamming distance
is used for binary features,
for which all descriptor
elements are binary values.
We will be using the SSD
distance function
for our examples to follow.
Our matching technique and
distance choices are
really quite simple.
But what do you think
might go wrong with
our proposed nearest neighbor
matching technique?
Let's look at
our first case and see
how our brute force matcher
works in practice.
Consider the feature inside
the yellow bounding box.
For simplicity, this feature
has a four-dimensional
descriptor,
which we'll call f1.
Let's compute the
distance between
f1 and the first feature
in the image two,
which we'll label f2.
We get a sum of squared
difference or SSD value of nine.
We then compute the
distance between
f1 and the second
feature in image two,
which we'll label f3.
Here, we get an SSD of 652.
We can now repeat
this process for
every other feature in
the second image and
find out that all the
other distances are
similarly large relative
to the first one.
We therefore choose feature f2 to
be our match as it has
the lowest distance to f1.
Visually, our brute force
approach appears to be working.
As humans, we can immediately see
that feature f1 in the image is
indeed the same point of
interest as feature
f2 in image two.
Now, let us consider
a second case where
our feature detector tries to
match a feature from image one,
for which there is no corresponding
feature in image two.
Let's take a look at what
the brute force approach will
do when our feature detector
encounters this situation.
Following the same
procedure as before,
we compute the SSD between
the descriptors of a
feature f1 in image one,
and all the features
in image two.
Assume that f2 and f3 are
the nearest neighbors of
f1 and with f2 having
the lowest score.
Although at 441,
it is still rather
dissimilar to the f1
feature descriptor
from the original image.
As a result, f2 will be
returned as our best match.
Clearly, this is not correct.
Because feature f1 is not
the same point of interest
as feature f2 in the scene.
So how can we solve this problem?
We can solve
this problem by setting
a distance threshold Delta on
the acceptance of matches.
This means that
any feature in image
two with a distance
greater than Delta to f1,
is not considered a
match even if it has
the minimum distance to
f1 among all the features
in image two.
Now, let's update
our brute force matcher
algorithm with our threshold.
We usually define
Delta empirically,
as it depends on
the application at
hand and the descriptor
we are using.
Once again, we define
our distance function to
quantify the similarity of
two feature descriptors.
We also fix a maximum
distance threshold
Delta for acceptable matches.
Then, for every feature
in image one,
we compute the distance to
each feature in image two and
store the shortest distance or
nearest neighbor as
the most likely match.
Brute force matching
is suitable when
the number of features we
want to match is reasonable,
but has quadratic
computational complexity
making it ill-suited as the
number of features increases.
For large sets of features,
special data structures such as
k-d trees are used to
enhance computation time.
Both brute force and
k-d tree-based matchers
are implemented as
part of OpenCV,
making them easy
for you to try out.
Just follow the links shown
at the bottom of this slide.
As a reminder, you can
download these lecture slides
for your review.
By now, you should have
a much better understanding
of feature detection,
description, and matching.
These three steps
are required to use
features for various
self-driving applications,
such as visual odometry
and object detection.
Our brute force matcher
is pretty deep,
but still far from perfect.
We really need
precise results to create
safe and reliable
self-driving car perception.
So in the next lesson,
we will learn how to improve
our brute force matcher
to accommodate some of
the troublesome and
ambiguous matches
that frequently lead
to incorrect results.
See you in the next video.